---
layout: post
title:  "Work-Life Balance and Burnout"
date:   2017-02-07 23:45:30 -0500
categories: professional family career
---

Whoa..  my understanding of working in Silicon Valley or landing an entry-level
programming job was filled with the hype of free laundry and meals, creative
freedom, and a driven but fun and collaborative work culture.  I understand
that a startup will ask a lot of it's employees (if not everything of them) in
order to get off the ground and stabilize a trajectory towards success.  But I
was not prepared for what I read about the culture of those attempting to [crack
into][hackerblues] the Valley.  This sort of situation is simply
dehumanizing... descriptions of 12 young adults living in two rooms through an
illegal Airbnb contract who worked 10-14 hour days only to return home and open
their laptops while sitting alone in a closet advertised as a "Private Bedroom"
for $1400.00 a month.  Living the techie dream.... Eat, Sleep, Code, Repeat.
The author also mentioned that a few of them were graduates from prestigious
universities such as Stanford, MIT, and Dartmouth, bouncing from one failed
startup to another, receiving six-figure salaries, yet still unable to afford a
legitimate lease.

Other articles discussed the woefully backwards policies that the U.S. has on
parental leave, especially in the tech industry.  Some companies such as Etsy
and Netflix are turning this around and using generous policies as a way to
attract and retain top talent but the overall culture seems to reject the
notion of having any sort of commitment outside of work.  This [New York
Times][nyt] article on worker perks and parental difficulties in Silicon Valley
discusses the silently understood practice of not welcoming married candidates,
women, or "older" candidates under the guise of one not being a "culture fit",
or that they "cannot align on priorities" and wouldn't make it in a "rapidly
moving company".  Is a fledgling start-up's work schedule for everyone?  No.
But denying positions to people because they are part of a family or do
something other than code 24/7 is absolute garbage.

It was refreshing to read about some change happening of late in these sorts of
companies as the 20-some-year-olds that fuel the tech industry become
30-some-year-olds and enter into parenthood.  Companies training with depth of
position in mind to account for employees missing for parental leave and CEO's
taking it upon themselves to set an example of work-life balance are good
signs.  But in the mean time, I can't imagine what parents working at most of
these tech companies are enduring.


I really do think men and women can "have it all" - a successful, fulfilling
career while also raising a family and achieving other goals.  Many European
nations have employee-leaning policies on parental leave and work week length
and yet still exist as powerful nations.  If there was some sort of
comprehensive reform in problem areas in the U.S. companies would not suffer
since relative productivity change compared to competitors would be minimal.

Even without reform, there are companies that do offer a successful work-life
balance.  Last summer I worked at MIT Lincoln Laboratory, located on an Air
Force Base right outside Boston.  The Lab was chartered in the 50's with the
purpose of protecting our nation from aerial attacks after a comprehensive
review of air security found our country to be vulnerable to such threats.  MIT
provides the brain power and the government throws down the cash.  Inventions
such as RADAR, SONAR, and the satellites that supported the Apollo missions
were created at Lincoln Labs.  More recently, they've had contracts with
SpaceX, established the first optical communications between the Earth and the
Moon with incredible speed and efficiency, implemented the first trapped-ion
quibit which has implications for quantum computing, and has had a hand in most
all technical accomplishments in our nation's space program.  Every large-scale
communications system in use by our military came through the lab, and it has a
huge presence in cyber-security recently through the Air Force.

All of the accomplishments above sound like concrete examples of people having
a fulfilling career.  Great advances in technology in pursuit of national
security to boot.  And every day at 5:00pm, the national anthem plays
throughout the Air Force base and Lab, everyone stands with their hands over
their hearts... and then leaves for the day.  The secure nature of the work
done there mandates that nothing can be taken home, and after talking with many
employees, they raved about the amount of respect Lincoln has of their time.
They turn their work phone off after 5pm on Fridays, and don't even think about
the job until 8am the following Monday.

It's not exactly an apples to apples comparison to equate a federally-funded
research and development center such as MIT Lincoln Laboratory to the type of
company one would encounter working Computer Science in Silicon Valley...  but
many of these people worked Silicon Valley jobs before quitting to seek out a
job like that at the Lab due to the overbearing culture of big tech companies.
Some are young and single, some have children, or even grand children, and
every person I encountered leads a fulfilling life in many different ways.

This is extremely important to me in the long run - while I firmly believe I
would survive and even thrive in a competitive and driven culture such as SpaceX in my early 20's, my ultimate allegiance is to my religion and my future family,
so eventually I will settle down with a company that is as respectful of this
mission as MIT Lincoln Laboratory.





[nyt]: https://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/08/upshot/silicon-valley-perks-for-some-workers-struggles-for-parents.html?_r=0

[hackerblues]: http://www.alternet.org/labor/hacker-house-blues-my-life-12-programmers-2-rooms-and-one-21st-century-dream


