---
layout: post
title:  "Corporate Personhood"
date:   2017-03-07 10:00:00 -0500
categories: ethics registry emissions corporate practice
---


Corporate personhood is the idea that corporations should possess similar
rights given to individuals, and thus be able to engage in activities such as
suing or being sued, assuming culpability when necessary as a method of
accountability, and a way in which capital investment is encouraged.  Legally,
this means that companies involved in instances such as the Deepwater Horizon
oil spill can be held accountable for damages done.  This seems to also be an
ethically acceptable facet of corporate personhood, as no one member of the
company is able to compensate for the disaster or is perhaps culpable due to
the failures surrounding the accident.  Some interesting social ramifications
come about when religion is attached to a company via corporate personhood:
The Green family's Christian beliefs eventually allowed them to be exempt from
paying the healthcare fees necessary for abortion and contraceptive measures.
Ethically this may be viewed as wrong and actually an attack on personhood
since the company does not remain separated from the religious views of its
owners but rather inherits them.  Still, a privately held corporation's state
as an individual person should be entitled to a religious view, just as it
should be held accountable for the actions of its owners and employees (the
case may indeed be different for a publicly held corporation in terms of
religion).  Should corporate personhood be abandoned, government intervention
and control over these sorts of activities would be increased with little left
to act as a check on the use of such power in industry.


What Volkswagen did was completely unethical and immoral - cheating through
emissions in order to validate sales or push platforms to market is
unacceptable.  If a product does not meet the defined standards under which it
must operate in order to be considered legal, it should be brought back to the
drawing board, not slyly slid into the marketplace.  In terms of punishment, I
think there should be a strong message sent to VW, at least by America, that
precludes certain things such as importing vehicles, tax breaks, and growth of
assets for a fixed amount of time, and perhaps revoking some sort of license
allowing them to bring new platforms to market until trust can be rebuilt and
regulations or checks be modified in order to catch emissions fraud.  While the
company can claim only a select few engineers knew of the emissions fraud, it
is the corporate personhood that is culpable, and management must seek to
guarantee the authenticity of its employees findings.

Corporations should indeed be obligated to following the same moral and ethical
guidelines / obligations as individual persons.  Without this provision,
corporate personhood is an iron curtain behind which fraudulent and unethical
individuals may hide without assuming blame.  You can't have it both ways -
either corporations are people, and should be held to such a standard, or they
are not, and should not receive the exclusive benefits from being considered as
such.











