---
layout: post
title:  "Net Neutrality"
date:   2017-03-28 10:00:00 -0500
categories: internet freedom regulation politics
---


Net Neutrality is a set of FCC enforced policies preventing Internet Service
Providers from discriminating against content in terms of accessibility and
price for access, effectively preventing high barriers to entry to join the web
as a content provider by banning pay-to-play deals, and generally maintaining
the current open internet.  If it were to be removed or modified, service
providers could charge a premium for viewing competitors' content, or throttle
services it deemed unfit for viewing, regardless of the opinions of the
end-users attempting to use them.  Also, rising startups and small businesses
would be forced to compete with expensive side deals struck between ISP's and
content providers in order to obtain appropriate amounts of network
accessibility or traffic.

Those opposed to net neutrality see the FCC's rules as just another form of
government regulation and intervention: preventing the service providers from
delivering content on their own terms prevents innovation, investments into
infrastructure for delivery, and in part because it was a product of the Obama
administration, this is the view of many key Republican politicians today.

Proponents of net neutrality argue that the reason the internet is the great
breeding ground for community, entrepreneurship, and free speech today is
largely due to lack of discrimination in content delivery.  How will small
companies be able to get off the ground if there are high financial or
corporate barriers to entry for gaining sufficient bandwidth on a major service
providers network?  What if a network has a subsidiary that doesn't align with
that of another provider - can they limit or even block access to it's
competitors?  The internet could quickly become a highly regulated and
politically polarized service.

Personally, I am a huge proponent of net neutrality.  The potential limitations
on freedom of speech are immense!  It has been demonstrated that certain social
media sites such as Facebook and Twitter were deliberately blocking certain
news and content during this past election cycle.  Imagine the influence of an
entire service provider doing the same under the guise of competition if net
neutrality were to be removed.  Providers could even throttle access to forums
or sites where people plan political meet-ups or protests, both of which are
protected in our Constitution.  Not to mention the discouragement this would
cause for up and coming companies whose predecessors succeeded based on merit,
not how much permission they were able to afford to purchase in the form of
bandwidth.

This would not prevent innovation for the internet.  It has helped young
content providers for decades in the past and will keep a level playing field
for all those interested in being heard via an equal voice across the globe.  I
    think the fact that ISP's own subsidiaries that may conflict with politics
    or other content networks should be reviewed.  This is what causes the 
    search for many of these zero-rating loopholes where companies don't cap 
    their own services but throttle competitors.  If the internet is truly
    considered a de facto utility, then ban throttling, content discrimination,
    and pay-to-play deals for content providers.  ISP's should be directing
    innovation towards increased accessibility, network capacity, and
    further-reaching infrastructure, not towards exploiting loopholes to
    squeeze out and potentially censor competitors.





