---
layout: post
title:  "The Internet of Things - Surveillance and Connectivity"
date:   2017-03-07 10:00:00 -0500
categories: surveillance internet household machines cloud
---


The motivation for developing and building internet connected devices stems
from the increasing user expectations of having (the illusion of) full control
over their lives.  Remotely turning on lights in the house, adjusting a
thermometer, talking to Alexa, or even making a cup of coffee are all
interesting and futuristic capabilities of our increasingly connected world.
Our cars have become smarter, too - keyless / remote entry and start, built-in
GPS navigational systems, and electronic control over everything from the
brakes to the steering and back hatch.  I even have a friend whose car kills
its engine automatically at stoplights and starts up before your foot leaves
the brake for emissions purposes.  All of these things seem helpful advances to
our lives and even helpful in terms of expending resources wisely.
We truly live in the future.

While all of this is revolutionary and likely here to stay, there is a lot of
unsettling opportunity for exploitation as our world becomes increasingly
connected.  Data mining companies now may know how frequently you drink coffee,
whether you like it warm or cool in your house, and even the times when you're
home, away, or asleep based on IoT devices.  And if IoT devices (DVR machines,
of all things) can be easily manipulated to form BotNet based DDOS attacks, the
government likely has backdoors in these devices for surveillance and gathering
of mass amounts of data.  Especially frightening are the discoveries made by
security researchers about automobile vulnerabilities in regards to
commandeering control of most all critical systems remotely.  The researchers
even surprised themselves with how far this could be taken after realizing cars
with Uconnect could be controlled anywhere in the country via the Sprint
network: “When I saw we could do it anywhere, over the Internet, I freaked out,” Valasek says. “I was frightened. It was like, holy fuck, that’s a vehicle on a highway in the middle of the country. Car hacking got real, right then.”  Now that's the stuff of nightmares.

These researchers had the right approach to handling potential security
concerns about IoT:  find issues, report them to companies, and don't abuse the
system by releasing findings to the public before they can be fixed.  The car
hacker's decision to release part of their exploit after the fact seems
justified considering it will push automakers to fill security gaps more
quickly (and historically, this is a needed push, as car companies received
DefCon 2013 by ignoring vulnerabilities and claiming systems were robust and
secure).  Finding remote exploits and demonstrating them was a noble venture -
these white-hat hackers didn't *create* any exploits, they responsibly probed
and discovered some before those with more malicious intentions were able to do
the same.  Programmers should be very security focused when working with IoT
devices for this exact reason.

Companies should not be held liable for the failure of security on a vehicle if
it can be proven that they did not know there was a critical flaw before an
incident occurred.  However, they should not be advertising a secure platform
without sufficient research and effort truly having been put forth in making it
secure.  For example, a car company is within it's rights to sell vehicles with
minimal security (such as cars without a door lock), but the market should
dictate via buying power that such vehicles will not perform well in sales.

Socially I don't think IoT will have much of an impact - we are already an
extremely connected culture full of cellphones, laptops, social media and other
distractions.  Adding an internet connected thermostat or integrated car GPS
shouldn't change that very much.  However, economically IoT could greatly
improve industries that could benefit from efficiency and smarter use of data.
Heating and power usage could be better managed with smart home monitoring and
control equipment, and the same could be said on a larger scale for companies
and industrial applications.  Sensors and feedback in places that were
previously human-operated or accepted as some sort of fixed cost can now be
implemented thanks to IoT.  And smarter decision making based on larger amounts
of data can also become possible.  Government regulation for such IoT devices
should not be any different than regulations applied to things such as cell
phones and wireless internet routers - devices must comply to certain standards
of production, interference generation, locational operation; users must be
held responsible for their actions with such devices.  I do fear parts of this
IoT revolution due to government surveillance and situations such as the DVR
botnet, but ultimately it seems to be inevitable that devices become smarter,
and we should work to effectively control and embrace this change rather than
resist.












